## Agricultural workers

This indicator combines Earth Observation data with non-EO information, to provide insights on ton harvesting and field preparation activities.

### Data sources

1. Satellite data consisted of optical high resolution (HR, Sentinel 2, 2019 and 2020) and very high resolution (VHR, Deimos, 2020) data, which have been used to assess time evolution of vegetation indexes and perform textural analysis to identify and classify agricultural fields.
2. Anonymised mobile data: with the support of Vodafone Italy, the number of workers in the fields broken down by nationality (Italian/foreign) and provenance (living in the area they work, going to the working area from other areas) have been extracted. The graph presents aggregated information on 3 categories, as detailed below. 
      - National Workers = aggregates Italian workers living in the area where they work, as well as comuting to work
      - Foreginer Workers = aggregates foreigner workers that live in the area of work, comute to work, and have Italian or foreign SIM
      - Unknown = workers of unknown nationality, that either live in the area of work or comute to work

3. Land cover classification map. [Land cover classification map from the Apulia region](http://www.sit.puglia.it/portal/portale_cartografie_tecniche_tematiche/Download/Cartografie)(last update: 2011) has been used as baseline for Vodafone cells classification.

For each day, the light/dark red chart background indicates whether there were **restrictions or lockdown** measure in place in the country where the city is located. This information is based on [Oxford University’s coronavirus government response tracker](https://covidtracker.bsg.ox.ac.uk/). 

### Area and period of analysis

The area of analysis is the province of Foggia, in the Apulia Region (Italy), where the tomato cultivation and productivity depend on the availability of foreign (legal and illegal) workers. In order to assess the impact of COVID-19 on fields preparation and crop harvesting, two months (April and August) have been analysed and compared for two years (2019 and 2020).

### Methodology

Based on mobile data, satellite data, and the land cover map, the the Vodafone cells that belong mainly to specific agriculture class were identified (also known as “aree a vegetazione sclerofilla”). Cells were overlayed with satellite data and those cells that contain minimal contamination of urban areas were selected. From the mobile data, the three worker categories were determined, per month (04/2019, 08/2019, 04/2020, 08/2020). 

## COVID-19 impact on the availability of agricultural workers
Data analysis show that the incidence of the lockdown in Spring 2020 is outstanding, and forced field preparation activities to be shifted ahead of about one month (from April to May). On the other side, August 2020 features a strong presence increase with respect to August 2019; overall tomato production has been affected by the restrictions with an estimate reduction slightly above 10% (validated with independent data).
