## European retail and supply chains

The steel and metal industries in Central and Eastern Europe play an important part in the European mix. According to Worldsteel, they represent 12% (about 16 million tons) of total carbon steel production within the EU-27 economic area. The steel producers and steel foundries in central Europe are closely integrated into production chains in Germany, Italy, Austria and France. 

Earth Observation data can be used to monitor some aspects of the impact on industrial and commercial activities. 
Sentinel-2 data can provide information on the change in container numbers and ore level in port areas as well as the build up of finished products (such as vehicles) that are not being exported. In addition, signs of industrial production at metal foundries and cement production can also be monitored using these datasets. By monitoring changes in construction sites, the data are also being used to support assessments of employment levels for the workforce and industrial contractors in this domain.

In addition, very high resolution imagery can be used to monitor the number of parked cars on the parking lots of commercial centres, which can be compared to the number of parking lots or the number of cars during other years. Similarly, logistic hubs can be monitored by observing the number of trucks.

## The impacts of COVID-19 on commercial retail and supply chain logistics in Europe 

The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted commercial consumer markets in Europe and around the world. Lock-down measures and social-distancing constraints in many countries effectively ceased customer flows to most retail stores. For example in Germany retail sales plummeted to the [lowest level since 2007](https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/eurozone-gdp-shrinks-in-first-quarter-coronavirus-2020-4-1029149227). In Italy retail [sales dropped by over 20% in March compared to the previous month](https://meet.lync.com/esa.int/doris.reinprecht/G0FE33Y5).

Industrial production activities were impacted to a varying extent due to both availability of supplies and the impact of lock-down measures on the labour force.  In particular the combination of impacts on finished good production (e.g. industrial machinery and vehicle production), intermediate good production such as cement, steel and other metals and importation of raw materials (e.g. metal ores) has led to difficulties in each domain as well as demand/supply imbalance in the overall supply chains. 

The sudden decline in demand of metal and steel and the forced shutdown of production across Western Europe resulted in a 13% fall in steel production in the region, while overall production in the EU-27 region dropped by 11%. Exports possibilities were also hampered due to border closure measures. [E-commerce companies](https://www.maze-one.com/en/news/covid-19-effect-on-amazon) on the contrary saw an increase in customer purchasing levels, taking advantage of goods delivered directly to their homes. Also [supermarkets and other suppliers of essential goods have witnessed increased levels of sales](https://www.statista.com/statistics/1108853/grocery-sales-increase-in-the-united-kingdom-coronavirus/), as many people buy more produce on bulk as a result of general uncertainty during the lock-down period. Accordingly Italy witnessed a 5% increase in sales in April 2020 when compared to sales levels at the end of 2019 for large supermarkets, discounters and pharmacies. This [increase was as high as 8% in the Italy’s South and only 3.5% in the North of the country](https://www.statista.com/statistics/1103506/impact-of-coronavirus-on-sales-values-in-large-retail-italy/). 

The retail market was also affected due to the impact on the [logistic supply chains](
https://meet.lync.com/esa.int/doris.reinprecht/G0FE33Y5). During the first months of the year when the greatest impact of COVID19 was still in China, overseas supply chains were being impacted with less shipments leaving China. Conversely, when production and export in China resumed, logistic networks and retail were not able to keep up with the incoming goods given the lower sales activities.  

For each day, the light/dark red chart background indicates whether there were **restrictions or lockdown** measure in place in the country where the city is located. This information is based on [Oxford University’s coronavirus government response tracker](https://covidtracker.bsg.ox.ac.uk/). 







