## Berries production in Huelva, Spain
The province of Huelva (Spain), that is responsible for 97.5%  of the national red berries production and stands as the world’s leading strawberry producer and exporter.

Satellites such as the Pléiades constellations allow to visualize the picking activity in between the greenhouses of berries. Thanks to available Pléiades archive over a core production area of Huelva (Laguna de las Madres, 13% of the total greenhouses of the province) and scheduled acquisitions, the picking activity can be monitored monthly. Sentinel-2 time series could also provide useful information as it is possible to observe the total area of greenhouses over the Huelva province. It is known that the greenhouses are being opened and removed at the end of the harvesting season which is usually happening in May-June. 

### Impacts of COVID-19 on labor-intensive fruit production

Huelva has suffered from both restrictions in seasonal workers movements and from a sharp decline in demand on perishable produce such as fresh berries. The Andalusian Strawberry and Red Fruit Interprofessional (Interfresa) pointed out in the beginning of April that the province was short by 25 000  temporary workers who are normally arriving mainly from Morocco. They also recorded an average drop in demand of 40 to 60%² due to a sharp drop of exportations to European countries such as Germany and the United Kingdom. 

Picking activity was monitored and compared to the 2019 season to assess the impact of COVID-19. The strawberry season started at the end of January and was already impacted in February with a decline in truck activity of 16% and 26.5% in March. A comparison of active rows with visible berry crates was also made between the two years and it was estimated that the picking activity was reduced by 27.3% in March 2020 and by 41% in April. 

Futhermore, a comparison of the greenhouses removal activity (using Sentinel-2 data) between 2019 and 2020 could highlight a delay in May 2020. 
