# Global PALSAR-2/PALSAR Forest/Non-Forest Map

The global Forest/Non-Forest (FNF) maps are based on the PALSAR-2/PALSAR imageries to show the worldwide forest distribution from year to year. The map has a 25-meter resolution and is available in 2007-2010 interannual maps by ALOS PALSAR and 2015-2021 by ALOS-2 PALSAR-2. Such interannual forest distribution maps provide essential information for forest monitoring activities, including climate change countermeasures.

The FNF maps were generated by a Random Forest machine learning-based classification method, with the re-processed global 25 m resolution PALSAR-2 mosaic dataset (Ver. 2.0.0) as input. Here, the "forest" is defined as the tree-covered land with an area larger than 0.5 ha and a canopy cover of over 10 %, following the FAO definition of forest. The classification results are presented in four categories, with two categories of forest areas:
forests with a canopy cover of 90 % or more and forests with a canopy cover of 10 % to 90 %, depending on the density of the forest area.

The previous version of the FNF maps - currently the case for the PALSAR FNF maps - were published in three categories:
forest, non-forest, and water. A threshold method was used to determine forest/non-forest for each year, which caused discontinuities when examining the same area over time, and changes could not be accurately captured.

Therefore, in the newly released version (Ver. 2.0.0), data for the past year is used in addition to the data for the target year to be created. For example, when creating the 2020 FNF, the global 25 m resolution mosaics of 2019 and 2020 are stacked and used as input data for classification. When stacked, the target year mosaic is weighted 3 times more than the past year's mosaic. In this way, the stacked data can represent the forest change by retaining the effect of the target year on the areas where the forest has changed.

Accuracy validation of the classification results was conducted for the four-category case and for the three-category case where the two forest areas were integrated. The results indicate that the overall accuracy was at least 86 % for three-categories and 76 % for four-categories for four years from 2017 to 2020. Accuracy thus improved by 5-10 % or more compared to the previous version. Please refer to the "Global 25m Resolution PALSAR-2 Forest/Non-forest Map (Ver2.0.0) Dataset Description" document for details on the classification method.

Tile URL:
https://ogcpreview1.restecmap.com/examind/api/WS/wms/JAXA_WMS_Preview?service=WMS&layers=FNF-PALSAR2-World-2017-Yearly


[Dataset page](https://www.eorc.jaxa.jp/ALOS/en/dataset/fnf_e.htm)

[Global 25m Resolution PALSAR-2 Global Forest/Non-forest Map Ver.2.0.0 Dataset Description](https://www.eorc.jaxa.jp/ALOS/en/dataset/pdf/DatasetDescription_PALSAR2_FNF_V200.pdf)
