## Rhone - Water Quality Time Series

Chlorophyll-a (Chl) concentration is an indicator of algae abundance and productivity. In open ocean, it fluctuates naturally over space and time as a result of atmospheric (wind) and oceanic (currents) conditions. In coastal areas, strongly influenced by river inputs and human activities, higher concentration can also result from the discharge in coastal waters of urban sewage, industrial runoffs, and fertilizers from agriculture activities over the watershed. Nutrient inputs of anthropogenic origin affect the natural amount of phytoplankton in marine and inland waters, representing a continuous threat to biodiversity and leading to undesirable modifications of phytoplankton concentration (i.e., eutrophication). By enabling to capture human pressures on coastal ecosystems and detect eutrophication, Chlorophyll-a concentration is therefore a commonly used proxy for water quality.

The time series shows weekly Chl-a concentration offshore Fos-Sur-Mer as calculated from Sentinel-3 full resolution (250m) data:

* **<span style="color:green">Green dots</span>** show weekly values lower than the climatological mean (in black), indicating good water quality.
* **<span style="color:blue">Blue dots</span>** show weekly values greater than the climatological mean but still inside the climatological variability, indicating regular water quality.
* **<span style="color:red">Red dots</span>** stand for values beyond the climatological variability, indicating poorer water quality.

### The impacts of COVID-19 lockdown measures on water quality

The water quality analysis focuses on assessing the effect of the lockdown and the subsequent economic recovery on inland and coastal water quality by monitoring the deviation from a climatological mean of Chlorophyll-a concentration over a number of key Areas of Interest.

On the indicator chart, for each day, the light/dark red chart background indicates whether there were **restrictions or lockdown** measure in place in the country where the city is located. This information is based on [Oxford University’s coronavirus government response tracker](https://covidtracker.bsg.ox.ac.uk/). 
