## About Sea Surface Temperature (SST) Indicator
Sea surface temperature (SST) is a key ocean monitoring indicator that allows to track the health of our marine environment. It modulates the flow of heat, regulates marine ecosystems, and responds to climate variability and change. Copernicus Marine Service Mediterranean Sea and Black Sea near real-time (NRT) SST products provide daily estimates of the foundation SST at ultra-high grid resolution. The Copernicus Marine MED-NRT-L4 and BS-NRT-L4 products are produced in near-real time by the CNR-ISMAR-GOS. They are based on nighttime images collected by different satellite infrared sensors.

The processing chain is composed of different modules, with the first module (M1) downloading the L2 data from external data providers, the second performing a remapping and applying quality control procedures, the third performing a blending of the selected L2 data, and the fourth performing a classical optimal interpolation (OI) method to obtain the gap-free (L4) product. For the ultra-high resolution product, the lower resolution L4 map is used as first guess for a second interpolation step.

## How it is generated
The climatology was built by using the Copernicus MED and BS reprocessed (REP) products (https://doi.org/10.48670/moi-00173 and https://doi.org/10.48670/moi-00160, respectively). These products provide long-term (1982-present), stable and consistent daily gap-free SST datasets at about 5 km grid resolution, particularly useful for climate applications. Specifically, both MED and BS REP SST products are built by optimal interpolation of the lower-level (merged single-sensor, L3C) SST climate data record provided by the ESA Climate Change Initiative (CCI) (Merchant et al., 2019) and the Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) initiatives. In order to obtain a consistent dataset with the NRT products, the reprocessed datasets were properly remapped through a bilinear interpolation over a 0.01° regular grid and then cropped to match the four selected areas. RMSD and mean bias for the reprocessed products have been quantified in 0.456 ± 0.001 K and 0.036 ± 0.001 K, respectively, for the Mediterranean Sea and 0.50 ± 0.01 K and 0.11 ± 0.01 K, respectively, for the Black Sea.

Daily time series of both SST products are turned into weekly time series by averaging on a pixel-by-pixel basis. For each pixel the average and standard deviation is computed from a data cube of 3 pixels x 3 pixels x 7 days. This averaging reduces the impact of possible noise, common at these small scales, and increases spatial coverage mined by lack of data mostly due to clouds. Finally, we consider the difference between the “present” weekly observations and the weekly climatology at the scale of the pixel. This difference was judged against the climatology in order to obtain a relative, dimensionless value.
